#Chemical Tracker

A chemical inventory server that allows users to dynamically develop an inventory of chemicals as
well as retrieve information on specific chemicals from any place where Internet is available.

Potential use cases include giving first responders the ability to identify hazardous materials;
allowing laboratory auditors to inventory chemicals that are found in labs; or providing users
with information about chemicals.

MSDS information was taken from [here](http://www.sciencelab.com/msdsList.php)

##Software Requirements

* [Git](https://git-scm.com)
* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org)

##Other Requirements

* [AWS Account](https://aws.amazon.com/)
* [AWS Credentials](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-security-credentials.html)

##Libraries Used

* [jQuery](https://jquery.com/)
* [KickStart](http://getkickstart.com/)
* [Spring MVC](http://spring.io/)

##Setup

###Code Setup

Run the following line in a terminal

    git clone git@github.com:Rosengren/ChemicalTracker.git

Go into the ChemicalTracker folder

    cd ChemicalTracker/

Build the source files by running Maven

    mvn package

To start the local server, run

    mvn spring-boot:run

The local server should be running at

    localhost:8080/

###AWS Setup

__Note__: Only follow these steps if you are setting up a new AWS account. If you are using an
existing account with all of the services setup, you can skip this part.
__Note__: Only do this part once you are comfortable with the code base and know how to generate
the .war file in the targets folder. (The targets folder can be generated by running **mvn package**);

1. Create an aws account [here](https://aws.amazon.com/).

2. Sign in to the console.

3. Go to the **Identity & Access Management** service under Security & Identity.

4. Select **Users** on the panel to the right. Or, look for an option to create a new user.

5. On the _Create New User_ page, enter any name and select "Create". Make sure that the "Generate an access key for each user" checkbox is selected.

6. On the following page, click "Download Credentials". Make sure to keep track of where you keep the downloaded file. It will be used in later steps.

7. After downloading the credentials, hit close and then go back to the services page by clicking the icon at the top right corner.

8. Choose the **Elastic Beanstalk** service under Compute.

9. Select "Create New Application" in the top right corner.

10. In the _Application name_ field, type: "ChemicalTracker". Adding a description is optional. Select next.

11. In the _New Environment_ page, select "Web Server Environment" and select next.

12. In the  _Predefined configuration_ dropdown, select "Tomcat".

13. In the _Environment type_ dropdown, select "Single instance" and select next.

14. On the _Application Version_ page, select "Upload your own" and select "Choose File".

15. In the file explorer pop-up, navigate to the ChemicalTracker/target/ folder that was created when you ran _mvn package_ and select the "ChemicalTracker.war" file. Then select next.

16. On the _Environment Information_ page, choose and environment name and an environment url.
__IMPORTANT:__ The "Environment URL" is the url that other applications will need to point to in
order to communicate with the server. Select next.

17. Under _Aditional Resources_, leave the options unchecked.  Select next.

18. Under _Configuration Details_, select t2.micro for "Instance type", enter your email address
in the "Email address" field. All other fields are optional. Select next.

19. Under _Environment Tags_, use you Key and Value credentials here. These are the credentials you created in step 6 above.

20. Under _Permissions_, select next.

21. Under _Review Information_, make sure that everything looks good, then select Launch.

Selecting Launch, will create an EC2 (Elastic Cloud Compute) Server under the EC2 service on the
console page. If you Go to the console. select EC2, then select "Running Instances", Ensure that
there is only 1 row in the table named "chemicaltracker". If you are using aws Free-Tier, you are
allowed to run one server instance before incurring any fees. If there are more than one, select
it and choose Actions > Instance State > Terminate.
<br/>
To access the webpage, go to _Elastic Beanstalk_, select the environment you created (ie.
chemicaltacker-env) and click on the link near the top: <url>.elasticbeanstalk.com.
<br/>
If all went well, on the _Elastic Beanstalk_ page under Overview, you should see a green
checkmark and/or a line that says "Health Ok".
<br/>

__NOTE:__ The following steps may not be necessary, however I ran into permission errors when my application attempted to connect to AWS services like DynamoDB
and S3.

22. On the Services page, select **EC2** under the compute section.

23. Select Running Instances. You should then see 1 row with the name "chemicalTacker".

24. Select the chemicalTracker row and then click the _Connect_ button above the table.

25. Follow the instructions that appear in order to connect to the server you created. If you are using Windows, you will need to download
Cygwin or PuTTy. If you're on OSX, you can use the Terminal application. If you're on a \*nix machine, I'm sure you're familiar with using a terminal.

26. Once you've connected to the server, you will need to add the credentials you saved earlier to the ~/.aws/credentials file. This can be done by running the following command:

    aws configure

You will then be prompted to enter your Id and Key. This should resolve any permissions errors.

##Making Code Changes

1. Make a code change in the ChemicalTracker/src/ folder.

2. Open a terminal, go to Chemical/Tracker/ directory and run `mvn package`. This will re compile
the code and generate a new chemicaltracker.war file.

3. Go to Elastic Beanstalk in the AWS Console and select the chemicaltracker environment.

4. Under the Overview header, there should be a button that says: "Upload and Deploy".

5. Select this option and navigate to the chemicaltracker.war file located in the
ChemicalTracker/Tracker/ directory.

6. After a few minutes, the online version should be updated.

##Backlog

###General
- Move chemical properties out of chemical object to make it easier to modify
    - Look into streamlining changes to the Chemical schema
- Add option for bulk uploading chemicals (maybe use csv with data pipelines)
- Create Rest APIs for Android (JSON or XML or Both)
- Create css/js MSDS diamond for chemical page
- Make containers editable
- Make containers deletable
- When chemical is improperly added, refill fields with user data
    - Also highlight missing fields
- Add ability to Sign Up/Sign Out
- Replace Maps with Data Access Objects with AWS objects

###Testing
- Add unit testing
- Add Integration tests (stubs & drivers)
- Use [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/getting_started) for Continuous Integration
- Use Mock framework like jmock
- Look into Hamcrest
- Use Checkstyle

###Command Line Tools
- Look into [SAWS](https://github.com/donnemartin/saws)
- Look into [EB CLI](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/eb-cli3-install.html)
- Deploy from GitHub to AWS [here](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/codedeploy/latest/userguide/github-integ-tutorial.html)

###Documentation
- Create Object Diagrams
- Create Sequence Diagrams
- Document chemical schema
- Document all Table schemas (user & container)
- Add details about spring MVC

###Misc
- Find interesting ways of using the data
    - Graphs about overall dangers in a container
    - Statistics about chemicals


##Troubleshooting

####POST http://url.com 403 (Forbidden)

If you see this in the console while submitting a form or a message similar to:
Token 'null' was found on the request parameter '\_csrf' or header 'X-CSRF-TOKEN',
add the following line inside of your form:

    <input type="hidden" name="${_csrf.parameterName}" value="${_csrf.token}">


